Add a new page for task dependencies (#4852)
vercel/turbo: docs/pages/repo/docs/core-concepts/monorepos/task-dependencies.mdx

---
title: Task Dependencies
description: Turborepo helps you specify task dependencies declaratively.
---

import Callout from "../../../../../components/Callout";
import HeartIcon from "@heroicons/react/solid/HeartIcon";
import { Tabs, Tab } from '../../../../../components/Tabs'

# Task Dependencies

Turborepo is most powerful when you express how your tasks relate to each other.
We refer to these relationships as "dependencies", but they are not the same as
package dependencies that you install from your `package.json` files. While Turborepo
does understand your workspaces, it does not automatically draw any
relationships between their tasks, unless you express them in `turbo.json` via

> the `dependsOn` configuration.

Author: cc @anthonyshew

Let's walk through some common patterns on how to make a task depend on other tasks.

## From the same workspace

There might be tasks that need to run _before_ other tasks. For instance,
`build` might need to be run before `deploy`.

If both tasks are in the same workspace, you can specify the relationship like
this:

```jsonc filename="turbo.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://turbo.build/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {},
    "deploy": {
      // A workspace's `deploy` task depends on the `build` task of the same workspace.
      "dependsOn": ["build"]
    }
  }
}
```

> This means that whenever `turbo run deploy` is run, `build` will also be run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that whenever `turbo deploy` is run, `build` will also be run
```

inside the same workspace.

## From dependent workspaces

A common pattern in monorepos is to declare that a workspace's `build` task
should only run once the `build` tasks of all _the workspaces it depends on_ are
complete.

<Callout type="info">

> This one is confusing to talk about because it refers to both _workspace_ dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be confusing as it refers to both _workspace_ dependencies
```

and _task_ dependencies, which are different concepts. Workspace dependencies are `dependencies`
and `devDependencies` in `package.json`, whereas, task dependencies are `dependsOn` key in `turbo.json`.
</Callout>

The `^` symbol (called a "caret") explicitly declares that the task depends on the task in a
workspace it depends on.

```jsonc filename="turbo.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://turbo.build/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {

>       // "A workspace's `build` command depends on its dependencies'
>       // and devDependencies' `build` commands being completed first"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // A workspace's `build` command depends on its dependencies'
      // and devDependencies' `build` commands being completed first
```

      "dependsOn": ["^build"],
    }
  }
}
```

With the configuration above, if an app installs a package from another workspace, the package's
`build` script will always run before the app's `build` script.

## From arbitrary workspaces

> Sometimes, you may want a workspace-task depend on another
> workspace-task. This can be especially helpful for repos migrating from `lerna`

Author: ```suggestion
Sometimes, you may want a workspace-task to depend on another
workspace-task. This can be especially helpful for repos migrating from `lerna`
```

> Sometimes, you may want to create a workspace-task depend on another
> workspace-task. This can be especially helpful for repos migrating from `lerna`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, you may want a workspace-task depend on another
workspace-task. This can be especially helpful for repos migrating from `lerna`
```

workspace:

```jsonc filename="turbo.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://turbo.build/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    // Explicit workspace-task to workspace-task dependency
    "frontend#deploy": {
      "dependsOn": ["ui#test", "backend#deploy", "backend#health-check"]
    }
  }
}
```

This explicit configuration for `frontend#deploy` may seem to conflict with the
`test` and `deploy` task configurations, but it does not. Since `test` and
`deploy` do not have dependencies on other workspaces (e.g. `^<task>`), they can
execute any time after their workspace's `build` and `test` scripts have
finished.

<Callout>
  Notes:

1. Although this `<workspace>#<task>` syntax is a useful escape hatch, we
   generally recommend using it for deployment orchestration tasks such as
   health checks, rather than build-time dependencies, so that Turborepo can
   optimize these tasks more efficiently
1. Workspace-tasks do not inherit cache configuration. You must redeclare
   [`outputs`](/repo/docs/reference/configuration#outputs) at the moment.
1. `<workspace>` must match the `name` key in the workspace's `package.json` or
   the task will be ignored.

</Callout>

> ## Dependencies outside of a task

Author: cc @nathanhammond @anthonyshew (merging this fyi)

> When your task has topological dependencies that are outside of that given task,

Reviewer: We should define `topological` here

Author: went a little further and explained it even more.
